pages/docs/flow-decision-triggers.md, before:

---
permalink: /docs/flow-decision-triggers
title: "💥 Flow Decision Triggers"
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
classes: wide
---

Flow Decision Triggers are common signals or struggles that prompt the need for a Flow Decision Record (FDR). Use these to help describe the context of your decision and connect it to recurring patterns.

## A. Delivery Struggles

- 🐢 **Slow delivery velocity**  
  Work is not getting done fast enough to meet goals or user expectations.

- 🔀 **Frequent context-switching**  
  Teams are juggling competing priorities or working across too many domains.

- 🤝 **High number of handoffs**  
  Work frequently changes hands, delaying progress and causing rework.

## B. Structural Misalignment

- 🚧 **Misaligned team boundaries**  
  Team ownership doesn’t match the shape of value streams or user needs.

- ❓ **Ambiguous ownership**  
  Responsibilities are unclear, duplicated, or shared in ways that block progress.

- 🧱 **Overloaded teams**  
  One team owns too much, resulting in bottlenecks or burnout.

## C. User and Stakeholder Signals

- 🙅‍♂️ **Unmet user needs**  
  A known user or customer need is being neglected or delayed.

- 😠 **Stakeholder dissatisfaction**  
  Product, business, or internal stakeholders are expressing frustration or concern.

- 📞 **Increasing support requests**  
  Internal or external teams are escalating issues or requesting too much help.

## D. Interaction Friction

- 🗓️ **Coordination overload**  
  Too much time is spent planning, aligning, or negotiating across teams.

- ⏰ **Temporal coupling**  
  Teams are required to work in lockstep or synchronize timelines to deliver value.

- 🧱 **Hard-to-use platform or services**  
  Platform or shared services are causing delays or confusion.

- ⚠️ **Unreliable delivery dependencies**  
  Teams are blocked by other teams or services with no clear resolution path.

## E. Strategic Change

- 🎯 **New strategic initiative**  
  A shift in company or product strategy requires realigning structures to match.

- 🪓 **Capability expansion or split**  
  A team or service is growing beyond a reasonable size or scope.

- 🔍 **Org-level flow review**  
  Part of a regular cadence of reviewing and improving flow, not just reactive.

After identifying a trigger, you can use the [Flow Decision Outcomes](/docs/flow-decision-outcomes) to help you understand the required impact of the decision.

---
[⬅ Back to Overview](/docs/overview)

Commit message:

Add some calls to action to go to Fast Flow Flywheel

pages/docs/flow-decision-triggers.md, after:

---
permalink: /docs/flow-decision-triggers
title: "💥 Flow Decision Triggers"
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
classes: wide
---

Flow Decision Triggers are common signals or struggles that prompt the need for a Flow Decision Record (FDR). Use these to help describe the context of your decision and connect it to recurring patterns.

## A. Delivery Struggles

- 🐢 **Slow delivery velocity**  
  Work is not getting done fast enough to meet goals or user expectations.

- 🔀 **Frequent context-switching**  
  Teams are juggling competing priorities or working across too many domains.

- 🤝 **High number of handoffs**  
  Work frequently changes hands, delaying progress and causing rework.

## B. Structural Misalignment

- 🚧 **Misaligned team boundaries**  
  Team ownership doesn’t match the shape of value streams or user needs.

- ❓ **Ambiguous ownership**  
  Responsibilities are unclear, duplicated, or shared in ways that block progress.

- 🧱 **Overloaded teams**  
  One team owns too much, resulting in bottlenecks or burnout.

## C. User and Stakeholder Signals

- 🙅‍♂️ **Unmet user needs**  
  A known user or customer need is being neglected or delayed.

- 😠 **Stakeholder dissatisfaction**  
  Product, business, or internal stakeholders are expressing frustration or concern.

- 📞 **Increasing support requests**  
  Internal or external teams are escalating issues or requesting too much help.

## D. Interaction Friction

- 🗓️ **Coordination overload**  
  Too much time is spent planning, aligning, or negotiating across teams.

- ⏰ **Temporal coupling**  
  Teams are required to work in lockstep or synchronize timelines to deliver value.

- 🧱 **Hard-to-use platform or services**  
  Platform or shared services are causing delays or confusion.

- ⚠️ **Unreliable delivery dependencies**  
  Teams are blocked by other teams or services with no clear resolution path.

## E. Strategic Change

- 🎯 **New strategic initiative**  
  A shift in company or product strategy requires realigning structures to match.

- 🪓 **Capability expansion or split**  
  A team or service is growing beyond a reasonable size or scope.

- 🔍 **Org-level flow review**  
  Part of a regular cadence of reviewing and improving flow, not just reactive.

After identifying a trigger, you can use the [Flow Decision Outcomes](/docs/flow-decision-outcomes) to help you understand the required impact of the decision.

[⬅ Back to Overview](/docs/overview)

---

Flow Decision Records are a foundational element of the [Fast Flow Flywheel](https://fastflowflywheel.com){: target="_blank"} approach. Reach out to us to learn more.
